let's cut right to the chase for most
people budgeting just
doesn't work
[Applause]
you maybe follow your budget for a few
days or a few weeks but soon you forget
about your budget and stop
tracking the flow of your money and
there goes your budget and that's
because the reality is
most of your budget is fixed you can't
really do anything about it without
making major life decisions
your rent is your rent your phone bill
is your phone bill your car payment is
your car payment
but the focus of today is the fact that
many people struggle with the little
ongoing frequent purchases like eating
out
delivery services or shopping so let's
tackle each one of those individually
first let's talk about eating up in my
research along with some colleagues i
found that eating out is one of the
biggest financial regrets that people
have
the only other expense that's even less
satisfying than eating out are bank fees
for eating out
instead of making a financial budget
where you tell yourself you're only
gonna spend a hundred dollars a month on
eating out let's focus on what i call a
frequency budget instead
so instead of focusing on the amount of
money that's much harder to track and
sometimes even impossible to track
let's focus on limiting the number of
times that you go out to eat
you'll have a much easier time saying no
and tracking your budget
now i understand that we are all social
humans and eating out is such a social
activity and if that's what you're
craving
i have some tips to make sure you can
hit two birds with one stone instead of
eating out
go and have a picnic with friends sign
up for a workout class
or do any of the hundred social
activities that you can do
without having to spend fifty to seventy
dollars a night if you plan it right
you can still satisfy your social
craving and still save your wallet a lot
of money
now let's talk about delivery services a
recent investigation found that those
who order through a delivery app
end up spending anywhere from seven
percent to 91
more than those who dined in thanks to
the pile of miscellaneous charges and
fees
in fact the same item can be more
expensive
on the app than in the restaurant right
now
you may be ordering out more frequently
one analysis found that with the
addition of delivery apps
fast food is no longer something
associated with a quick bite on the go
given the added baggage that comes with
these delivery apps
my top tip here is to delete the apps
from your phone
now if deleting it is too permanent or
too extreme
you can still change your environment by
making as many speed bumps as you can
to slow down the pace of purchases maybe
link the app to a debit card
with a small preset amount of money you
can also delete the app
after every purchase so that it's not
enticing you
at all hours now let's talk about
shopping let me be clear i'm not
saying that you should never go shopping
what i am saying
is that i encourage you to buy the
things that bring you happiness
research has shown that when you spend
money on others
when you spend money on experiences and
when you spend money on the things that
save you time
these expenses make you happier and i
know retail therapy may seem great but
researchers have found that spending the
same amount of money on someone else
even as little as five dollars can make
you happier so get that t-shirt for your
friend
instead of yourself make a donation to a
place that you
really love and support or buy an
experience for yourself
try something for the first time and if
you're overwhelmed and you're burning
the candle at both ends
know that it's okay to invest in
something that will free up your time
hire a local high schooler to mow your
lawn or get someone to clean your house
these may be a little pricey but the
time you save will be worth every penny
by making these small changes to your
discretionary spending you can
not only spend less but actually get
more happiness and satisfaction from
your spending
it could mean a life with fewer guilty
pleasures
and less regret now who wouldn't want
that